1.7.0 documentation (#360)
IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver: docs/content/configuration/csi_ug_config_create_replication.md

# Creating a VolumeReplication

Create a VolumeReplication YAML file to replicate a specific PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC).

VolumeReplicationClass needs to be present before a VolumeReplication can be created. For more information, see [Creating a VolumeReplicationClass](csi_ug_config_create_vol_replicationclass.md).

> **Note:** Replication is referred to as the more generic volume replication within this documentation set. Spectrum Virtualize products refer to this feature as the remote copy function.

Reviewer: aligning to snapshots:
```suggestion
**Note:** Remote copy function is referred to as the more generic volume replication within this documentation set. Not all supported products use the Remote copy function terminology.
```

Author: DONE

When replicating a volume, be sure to follow all of the replication configurations, found in [Compatibility and requirements](../installation/csi_ug_requirements.md) before volume replication.

1.  Replicate a specific PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) using the `demo-volumereplication.yaml`.

    For more information about PVC configuration, see [Creating a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC)](csi_ug_config_create_pvc.md).

    ```
    apiVersion: replication.storage.openshift.io/v1alpha1
    kind: VolumeReplication
    metadata:
      name: demo-volumereplication
      namespace: default
    spec:
      volumeReplicationClass: demo-volumereplicationclass
      replicationState: primary
      dataSource:
        kind: PersistentVolumeClaim

>         name: demo-pvc-file-system # should be in same namespace as VolumeReplication

Reviewer 2: why are we using lowercase for the comment here?

Author: I don't know. check the latest yaml file and if it's ok there. i still need to go through and update all of the yamls in my documentation.

Author: updated all yaml files in my docs. please review again

Reviewer 2: I don't see the change

Reviewer: I see it, [here](https://github.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver/pull/360/files#diff-3b5a6baab6dd9dbaa701947f25e694714ae057df1f6a9cfd3a5dd9a851c3f64e)

    ```

2.  After the YAML file is created, apply it by using the `kubectl apply -f` command.

    ```

>     kubectl apply -f <filename>.yaml

Reviewer: since there is only 1 yaml in this page, IMO, it would be better to specify its explicit name (as was done in most of the other single-yaml pages)
```suggestion
    kubectl apply -f demo-volumereplication.yaml
```
(same for [other](https://github.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver/blob/8d18ae5a6d95b15894c814e59a27c133aea06d8a/docs/content/configuration/csi_ug_config_create_snapshots.md) places)

Author: as I wrote [here](https://github.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver/pull/360#discussion_r713795764)
I think that it's better that we keep the commands more generic. It's better not to specify in this case because the others are examples and the customer may be using other names for for their files. this way we know that they will apply the correct name for the command.

Reviewer: most of the single-yaml pages are not like this, and IMO it is more important for them to be aligned than to have the "better" convention

Author: i've updated a lot (I think all at this point) instances for consistency. the better convention here is to give the general command/ information and not a specific example. the one exception is in the sample usage section.
DONE

Reviewer: speaking of aligning this - why is there no `the X created message is emitted` line in the snapshot+replication (+classes+topology) pages?

Author: I need the messages given to me. please send me the exact wording and I'll add it in.

Reviewer: @tyichye19 should have them

Reviewer 3: For VolumeReplicationClass - `volumereplicationclass.replication.storage.openshift.io/<volumereplicationclass-name> created`
For VolumeReplication - `volumereplication.replication.storage.openshift.io/<volumereplication-name> created`
For VolumeSnapshotClass - `volumesnapshotclass.snapshot.storage.k8s.io/<volumesnapshotclass-name> created`
For VolumeSnapshot - `volumesnapshot.snapshot.storage.k8s.io/<volumesnapshot-name> created`

Author: DONE

Reviewer: the [volumesnapshot](https://github.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver/blob/c4cde796d28b2347bfe3484a509edbb9bce534bc/docs/content/configuration/csi_ug_config_create_snapshots.md) and [volumereplication](https://github.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver/blob/c4cde796d28b2347bfe3484a509edbb9bce534bc/docs/content/configuration/csi_ug_config_create_replication.md) message lines should be at the end of the 2nd step (not 3rd).
in addition, I [don't see it](https://github.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver/blob/c4cde796d28b2347bfe3484a509edbb9bce534bc/docs/content/configuration/csi_ug_config_create_vol_snapshotclass_topology.md) in the [snapshot class topology](https://github.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver/pull/360#discussion_r713920958) page

Author: @roysahar-ibm  @ArbelNathan  can you give me the created message line for snapshot class topology?
@tyichye19  doesn't have it. thanks

Author: @oriyarde  thanks. I fixed the placement of the two files.

Reviewer: it should be the same as VolumeSnapshotClass

Reviewer: placement LGTM

Author: DONE

    ```

3.  Verify that the volume was replicated.

    Run the `kubectl describe volumereplication` command.

    See the `status.state` section to see which of the following states the replication is in:

    -   **Primary** Indicates that the replicated volume is the primary volume.

>     -   **Secondary** Indicates that the replicated volume is the secondary volume.

Reviewer: the `replicated volume` here should be `source volume`

Author: @oriyarde  for Primary?

Reviewer: for both Primary and Secondary

Author: DONE

# Creating a VolumeReplication

Create a VolumeReplication yaml file to replicate a specific PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC).

> VolumeReplicationClass needs to be present before a VolumeSnapshot can be created. For more information, see [Creating a VolumeReplicationClass](csi_ug_config_create_vol_replicationclass.md).

Author: thanks.
DONE

> VolumeReplicationClass needs to be present before a VolumeSnapshot can be created. For more information, see [Creating a VolumeReplicationClass](csi_ug_config_create_vol_replicationclass.md).

Reviewer 2: I don't see the change here

> VolumeReplicationClass needs to be present before a VolumeSnapshot can be created. For more information, see [Creating a VolumeReplicationClass](csi_ug_config_create_vol_replicationclass.md).

Author: Please see https://github.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver/blob/1.7.0_documentation/docs/content/configuration/csi_ug_config_create_replication.md. it's showing

**Note:** Replication is also known as mirroring in many storage systems.

> When replicating a volume, be sure to follow all of the replication configurations, found in [Compatibility and requirements](../installation/csi_ug_requirements.md) before snapshot creation.

Reviewer: `snapshot` has nothing to do with replication

Author: DONE
@oriyarde  I understand - I copied the snapshot file and worked off of that and just forgot to change it over.

Reviewer: I don't see any change here yet

Author: @oriyarde  Please check now. I might have not pushed the changes fully earlier.

> 1.  Replicate a specific  PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) using the demo-replication.yaml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Replicate a specific PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) using the demo-replication.yaml.
```
is there an editor you could use which helps avoid superfluous spaces?

Author: DONE
I've tried to go through with a search to see which spaces can be removed.
I am using the best editor that I have available currently to work with the MD files, github, and use the other one ID tool that I have at my disposal for this to help with style, grammar, word usage etc. according to IBM standards. I use it as I can and it usually catches these types of issues.

Reviewer: I still see this double space here

Author: @oriyarde  Please check now. I might have not pushed the changes fully earlier.

    For more information about PVC configuration, see [Creating a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC)](csi_ug_config_create_pvc.md).

    ```
    apiVersion: replication.storage.openshift.io/v1alpha1
    kind: VolumeReplication
    metadata:
      name: volumereplication-sample
      namespace: default
    spec:
      volumeReplicationClass: volumereplicationclass-sample
      replicationState: primary

>       dataSource:

Reviewer: note that we are still [working on](https://github.com/csi-addons/volume-replication-operator/pull/109) adding an additional field, which we call [`targetVolumeHandle`](https://github.com/csi-addons/volume-replication-operator/blob/6462612ffb0d7c5852757fea15ccb99e996a310e/README.md#volumereplication)

Author: ack.
when relevant, please open a ticket with the specific changes that will be necessary.

Reviewer: np

        kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
        name: myPersistentVolumeClaim # should be in same namespace as VolumeReplication
    ```

> 2.  After the YAML file is created, apply it by using the `kubectl apply -f` command.

Reviewer: why is `YAML` sometimes capitalized and sometimes not?

Author: according to IBM Style it should be capitalized if referred to by itself and lower case if with `.yaml` file. I'll review the different times that it's in the document and make sure that it's consistent.

Reviewer: thanks

Author: DONE

    ```
    kubectl apply -f <filename>.yaml
    ```

> 3.  Verify that the VolumeReplication file was created.

Reviewer: no need for `file` here (same as in VolumeSnapshot docs - the file was already created before step 2)

Author: @oriyarde  you're saying that step 3 should read "Verify that the volume was replicated."?

Reviewer: for consistency and simplicity, I suggest:
```suggestion
3.  Verify that the VolumeReplication was created.
```

Author: @oriyarde  it may seem more consistent but your suggestion isn't proper for writing unless it's the file name. 
Assuming that "Verify that the volume was replicated" is correct technically I'm updating (same as for VolumeSnapshot)
DONE

    Run the `kubectl describe volumereplication` command.

    See the **Status** section of the output for the following:

    -   **Bound Volume Snapshot Content Name:** Indicates the volume is bound to the specified VolumeSnapshotContent.
    -   **Creation Time:** Indicates when the snapshot was created.
    -   **Ready to Use:** Indicates the volume snapshot is ready to use.

>     -   **Restore Size:** Indicates the minimum volume size required when restoring (provisioning) a volume from this snapshot.

Reviewer: I don't think these are relevant for replication.
@lisyukanna knows the relevant values

Author: @oriyarde  right. these were just kept in from the snapshot file as a holder place, as I was requested to do . @lisyukanna  Please provide with any updates that should be here. thanks

Reviewer 2: @rivkap we have 3 states for volumereplication:
- status.state: Primary
- status.state: Secondary
- status.state: Unknown

Author: thanks @lisyukanna .
I've updated the section. please review and approve.

Also, what happens if it's unknown? Is what I've written sufficient for the customers?
also - according to this [usage](https://github.com/csi-addons/volume-replication-operator/tree/v0.1.0#usage) section it's called `replicationState`. is this what we have in our output as well - if so, I"ll update the text here?

Reviewer: AFAIK it could but should not be "unknown" (just as a snapshot status "ready to use" could but should not be "False"), so I think it's sufficient.
`replicationState` is a [separate field](https://github.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver/blob/6a88b5caf5aef1471c5a742b5a494a204911079d/deploy/kubernetes/examples/demo-volumereplication.yaml#L8), and it is more of an input rather than an output - this is why I suggested adding a link to said usage section

Author: DONE  @lisyukanna  @oriyarde  please approve and resolve

Reviewer: as I wrote, IMO:
`Indicates that the driver does not recognize the replicated state` should be:
`Indicates that the driver does not recognize the replication state` (because the state is not what is being replicated)

in addition, IMO:
`See the status.state section to see which of the following states the replicated volume is part of` should be:
`See the status.state section to see which of the following states the replication is in` or:
`See the status.state section to see in which of the following states the replication is`

Reviewer: also:
`Volume Replicator Operator` should be:
`Volume Replication Operator`

Reviewer: and:
`For information about changing the replication status` should be:
`For information about changing the replication state`

Author: DONE

Reviewer 2: LGTM

    ```
    apiVersion: replication.storage.openshift.io/v1alpha1
    kind: VolumeReplication
    metadata:
      name: demo-volumereplication
      namespace: default
    spec:
      volumeReplicationClass: demo-volumereplicationclass
      replicationState: primary
      dataSource:
        kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
        name: demo-pvc-file-system  # Ensure that this is in the same namespace as VolumeReplication.
    ```

2.  After the YAML file is created, apply it by using the `kubectl apply -f` command.

    ```
    kubectl apply -f <filename>.yaml
    ```

    The `volumereplication.replication.storage.openshift.io/<volumereplication-name> created` message is emitted.

3.  Verify that the volume was replicated.

    Run the `kubectl describe volumereplication` command.

    See the `status.state` section to see which of the following states the replication is in:

    -   **Primary** Indicates that the source volume is the primary volume.
    -   **Secondary** Indicates that the source volume is the secondary volume.
    -   **Unknown** Indicates that the driver does not recognize the replication state.

>     **Note:** For information about changing the replication state, see the [Usage](https://github.com/csi-addons/volume-replication-operator/tree/v0.1.0#usage) section of the Volume Replication Operator for csi-addons.

Reviewer: note that the final version in the url here is now `v0.2.0` (instead of `v0.1.0`)

Author: DONE

VolumeReplicationClass needs to be present before a VolumeReplication can be created. For more information, see [Creating a VolumeReplicationClass](csi_ug_config_create_vol_replicationclass.md).

**Note:** Remote copy function is referred to as the more generic volume replication within this documentation set. Not all supported products use the remote-copy function terminology.

When replicating a volume, be sure to follow all of the replication configurations, found in [Compatibility and requirements](../installation/csi_ug_requirements.md) before volume replication.

1.  Replicate a specific PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) using the `demo-volumereplication.yaml`.

    For more information about PVC configuration, see [Creating a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC)](csi_ug_config_create_pvc.md).

    **Note:** Use the `spec.csi.volumeHandle` of the relevant target PersistentVolume (PV) for the `replicationHandle` value.

    ```
    apiVersion: replication.storage.openshift.io/v1alpha1
    kind: VolumeReplication
    metadata:
      name: demo-volumereplication
      namespace: default
    spec:
      volumeReplicationClass: demo-volumereplicationclass
      replicationState: primary

>       replicationHandle: demo-replicationhandle

Author: updated in 1.10 branch
